README.md, before:

# ODK Briefcase
![Platform](https://img.shields.io/badge/platform-Java-blue.svg)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0)
[![Build status](https://circleci.com/gh/opendatakit/briefcase.svg?style=shield&circle-token=:circle-token)](https://circleci.com/gh/opendatakit/briefcase)
[![Slack status](http://slack.opendatakit.org/badge.svg)](http://slack.opendatakit.org)

ODK Briefcase is a desktop application that can locally store survey results gathered with [ODK Collect](https://opendatakit.org/use/collect). It can also be used to make local copies and CSV exports of data from [ODK Aggregate](https://opendatakit.org/use/aggregate/) (or compatible servers) and push data to those servers.   

ODK Briefcase is part of Open Data Kit (ODK), a free and open-source set of tools which help organizations author, field, and manage mobile data collection solutions. Learn more about the Open Data Kit project and its history [here](https://opendatakit.org/about/) and read about example ODK deployments [here](https://opendatakit.org/about/deployments/).

* ODK website: [https://opendatakit.org](https://opendatakit.org)
* ODK Briefcase usage instructions: [https://opendatakit.org/use/briefcase](https://opendatakit.org/use/briefcase)
* ODK forum: [https://forum.opendatakit.org](https://forum.opendatakit.org)
* ODK developer Slack chat: [http://slack.opendatakit.org](http://slack.opendatakit.org) 
* ODK developer Slack archive: [http://opendatakit.slackarchive.io](http://opendatakit.slackarchive.io) 
* ODK developer wiki: [https://github.com/opendatakit/opendatakit/wiki](https://github.com/opendatakit/opendatakit/wiki)

## Setting up your development environment

1. Fork the briefcase project ([why and how to fork](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/))

1. Clone your fork of the project locally. At the command line:

        git clone https://github.com/YOUR-GITHUB-USERNAME/briefcase

We recommend using [IntelliJ IDEA](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/) for development. On the welcome screen, click `Import Project`, navigate to your briefcase folder, and select the `build.gradle` file. Use the defaults through the wizard. Once the project is imported, IntelliJ may ask you to update your remote maven repositories. Follow the instructions to do so. 

The main class is `org.opendatakit.briefcase.ui.MainBriefcaseWindow`. This repository also contains code for three smaller utilities with the following main classes:
- `org.opendatakit.briefcase.ui.CharsetConverterDialog` converts CSVs to UTF-8
- `org.opendatakit.briefcase.ui.MainClearBriefcasePreferencesWindow` clears Briefcase preferences
- `org.opendatakit.briefcase.ui.MainFormUploaderWindow` uploads blank forms to Aggregate instances

There might be some compile errors in the IDE about a missing class `BuildConfig`. That class is generated by gradle and the warnings can be ignored.

If you are working with [encrypted forms](http://docs.opendatakit.org/encrypted-forms) you may get an `InvalidKeyException`. This is because you do not have an unlimited crypto policy enabled in Java. Do this:

* Java 8 Update 151 or later: Set `crypto.policy=unlimited` in `$JAVA_HOME/jre/lib/security/java.security`
* Java 8: Install [Unlimited Strength Policy Files 8](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/jce8-download-2133166.html) in `$JAVA_HOME/jre/lib/security`
* Java 7: Install [Unlimited Strength Policy Files 7](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/jce-7-download-432124.html) in `$JAVA_HOME/jre/lib/security`
 
## Running the project
 
To run the project, go to the `View` menu, then `Tool Windows > Gradle`. `run` will be in `odk-briefcase > Tasks > application > run`. Double-click `run` to run the application. This Gradle task will now be the default action in your `Run` menu. 

You must use the Gradle task to run the application because there is a generated class (`BuildConfig`) that IntelliJ may not properly import and recognize.

To package a runnable jar, use the `jar` Gradle task.

To try the app, you can use the demo server. In the window that opens when running, choose Connect, then fill in the URL [http://opendatakit.appspot.com](http://opendatakit.appspot.com) leave username and password blank.

## Contributing code
Any and all contributions to the project are welcome. ODK Briefcase is used across the world primarily by organizations with a social purpose so you can have real impact!

If you're ready to contribute code, see [the contribution guide](CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Downloading builds
Per-commit debug builds can be found on [CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/opendatakit/briefcase). Login with your GitHub account, click the build you'd like, then find the JAR in the Artifacts tab under $CIRCLE_ARTIFACTS/libs.

Current and previous production builds can be found on the [ODK website](https://opendatakit.org/downloads/download-info/odk-briefcase/).

Commit message:

Added information about operating systems and Briefcase testing plan (#250)

README.md, after:

# ODK Briefcase
![Platform](https://img.shields.io/badge/platform-Java-blue.svg)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0)
[![Build status](https://circleci.com/gh/opendatakit/briefcase.svg?style=shield&circle-token=:circle-token)](https://circleci.com/gh/opendatakit/briefcase)
[![Slack status](http://slack.opendatakit.org/badge.svg)](http://slack.opendatakit.org)

ODK Briefcase is a desktop application that can locally store survey results gathered with [ODK Collect](https://opendatakit.org/use/collect). It can also be used to make local copies and CSV exports of data from [ODK Aggregate](https://opendatakit.org/use/aggregate/) (or compatible servers) and push data to those servers.   

ODK Briefcase is part of Open Data Kit (ODK), a free and open-source set of tools which help organizations author, field, and manage mobile data collection solutions. Learn more about the Open Data Kit project and its history [here](https://opendatakit.org/about/) and read about example ODK deployments [here](https://opendatakit.org/about/deployments/).

* ODK website: [https://opendatakit.org](https://opendatakit.org)
* ODK Briefcase usage instructions: [https://opendatakit.org/use/briefcase](https://opendatakit.org/use/briefcase)
* ODK forum: [https://forum.opendatakit.org](https://forum.opendatakit.org)
* ODK developer Slack chat: [http://slack.opendatakit.org](http://slack.opendatakit.org) 
* ODK developer Slack archive: [http://opendatakit.slackarchive.io](http://opendatakit.slackarchive.io) 
* ODK developer wiki: [https://github.com/opendatakit/opendatakit/wiki](https://github.com/opendatakit/opendatakit/wiki)

## Setting up your development environment

1. Fork the briefcase project ([why and how to fork](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/))

1. Clone your fork of the project locally. At the command line:

        git clone https://github.com/YOUR-GITHUB-USERNAME/briefcase

We recommend using [IntelliJ IDEA](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/) for development. On the welcome screen, click `Import Project`, navigate to your briefcase folder, and select the `build.gradle` file. Use the defaults through the wizard. Once the project is imported, IntelliJ may ask you to update your remote maven repositories. Follow the instructions to do so. 

The main class is `org.opendatakit.briefcase.ui.MainBriefcaseWindow`. This repository also contains code for three smaller utilities with the following main classes:
- `org.opendatakit.briefcase.ui.CharsetConverterDialog` converts CSVs to UTF-8
- `org.opendatakit.briefcase.ui.MainClearBriefcasePreferencesWindow` clears Briefcase preferences
- `org.opendatakit.briefcase.ui.MainFormUploaderWindow` uploads blank forms to Aggregate instances

There might be some compile errors in the IDE about a missing class `BuildConfig`. That class is generated by gradle and the warnings can be ignored.

If you are working with [encrypted forms](http://docs.opendatakit.org/encrypted-forms) you may get an `InvalidKeyException`. This is because you do not have an unlimited crypto policy enabled in Java. Do this:

* Java 8 Update 151 or later: Set `crypto.policy=unlimited` in `$JAVA_HOME/jre/lib/security/java.security`
* Java 8: Install [Unlimited Strength Policy Files 8](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/jce8-download-2133166.html) in `$JAVA_HOME/jre/lib/security`
* Java 7: Install [Unlimited Strength Policy Files 7](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/jce-7-download-432124.html) in `$JAVA_HOME/jre/lib/security`
 
## Running the project
 
To run the project, go to the `View` menu, then `Tool Windows > Gradle`. `run` will be in `odk-briefcase > Tasks > application > run`. Double-click `run` to run the application. This Gradle task will now be the default action in your `Run` menu. 

You must use the Gradle task to run the application because there is a generated class (`BuildConfig`) that IntelliJ may not properly import and recognize.

To package a runnable jar, use the `jar` Gradle task.

To try the app, you can use the demo server. In the window that opens when running, choose Connect, then fill in the URL [http://opendatakit.appspot.com](http://opendatakit.appspot.com) leave username and password blank.

## Contributing code
Any and all contributions to the project are welcome. ODK Briefcase is used across the world primarily by organizations with a social purpose so you can have real impact!

If you're ready to contribute code, see [the contribution guide](CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Contributing testing
All releases are verified on the following operating systems:
* Ubuntu 17.04
* Windows 7

Testing checklists can be found on the [Briefcase testing plan](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1H46G7OW21rk5skSyjpEx3dCZVv5Ly4WDK8LISmrz714/edit?usp=sharing).

## Downloading builds
Per-commit debug builds can be found on [CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/opendatakit/briefcase). Login with your GitHub account, click the build you'd like, then find the JAR in the Artifacts tab under $CIRCLE_ARTIFACTS/libs.

Current and previous production builds can be found on the [ODK website](https://opendatakit.org/downloads/download-info/odk-briefcase/).
