docs/export-format.md, before:

# Briefcase export CSV format

## Format parameters

| Parameter               | Value | Description |
| ----------------------- | ----- | ----------- |
| Separator               | `,`   | Comma character |
| Quoted                  | `"`   | Double quote character. See the [Values block columns](#values-block-columns) section to know which fields get quoted |
| Header                  | Yes   | Every file will have a header with the respective column names |
| Empty columns           | Yes   | See the [Values block columns](#values-block-columns) section to know which fields get empty columns |
| Encoding of null values | No    | Nulls are empty columns and, sometimes, empty strings |

## Main output file

The main output file has values from any non-repeating group field found at the topmost level of a form's model and other metadata.

### Structure of the file:

| Column name    | Required | Quoted | Description |
| -------------- | -------- | ------ | ----------- |
| SubmissionDate | Yes      | Yes    | See the [Values block columns](#values-block-columns) section to learn how dates are encoded |
| Values block   | Yes      |        | Holds columns with the values of topmost model fields and non-repeating groups |
| KEY            | Yes      | No     | Holds the `instanceID` of each submission |
| isValidated    | No       | No     | It's only present if the form is encrypted. It holds `true` if the cryptographic signature has been validated, `false` otherwise |

## Repeat output file

Each repeat group will produce an output CSV file.

The file names of repeat groups depend on their position inside the model tree of the form. Some examples:

- If form X contains a repeat group Y, then the output file for the repeat group will be named X-Y.csv.
- If form X contains a non-repeat group Y, which contains a repeat group Z, then the output file for the repeat group will be named X-Y-Z.csv.

### Structure of the file:

| Column name         | Required | Description |
| ------------------- | -------- | ----------- |
| Values block        | Yes      | Holds columns with the values of the repeat group's fields |
| PARENT_KEY          | Yes      | Identifies the parent row |
| KEY                 | Yes      | Identifies this row |
| SET-OF-{GROUP NAME} | Yes      | Identifies the group this row belongs to |

### `PARENT_KEY`

|                  | Pattern         | Example                                               |
| ---------------- | --------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| Top group        | `{INSTANCE ID}` | `uuid:00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000`           |
| Descendant group | `{PARENT KEY}`  | `uuid:00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/group1[1]` |

_Note: non-repeat groups in the chain of ancestors are always ignored_

### `KEY`

|                  | Pattern                                  | Example                                                         |
| ---------------- | ---------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Top group        | `{INSTANCE ID}/{GROUP NAME}[{ORDERING}]` | `uuid:00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/group1[1]`           |
| Descendant group | `{PARENT KEY}/{GROUP NAME}[{ORDERING}]`  | `uuid:00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/group1[1]/group2[1]` |

_Note: the `[{ORDERING}]` part is 1-indexed_
_Note: non-repeat groups in the chain of ancestors are always ignored_

### `SET-OF-{GROUP NAME}`

|                  | Pattern                      | Example                                                      |
| ---------------- | ---------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Top group        | `{INSTANCE ID}/{GROUP NAME}` | `uuid:00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/group1`           |
| Descendant group | `{PARENT KEY}/{GROUP NAME}`  | `uuid:00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/group1[1]/group2` |

_Note: non-repeat groups in the chain of ancestors are always ignored_

The SET-OF columns may be named differently in the two output files. For example, if form X contains a non-repeat group Y, which contains a repeat group Z, then:

- The main output file will have a column named SET-OF-Y-Z (the long name of the repeat group).
- The output file for the repeat group will have a column named SET-OF-Z (only the short name of the repeat group, without the name of its parent group).

## Values block columns

The values block has a column for each non-repeating field.

### Repeating groups

Repeating groups will produce a column named using the format `SET-OF-{GROUP NAME}` and their value will correspond to the same column in its own output file.

### Non-repeating groups

The fields of a non-repeating group replace their parent's column in a CSV file. Their column names will be composed to be able to track the group to which they belong. Example:

- Lets consider the following model:

    ```xml
    <model>
      <field1/>
      <field2>
        <field3/>
        <field4/>
      </field2>
    </model>
    ```
- The output CSV file will have these columns: `field1,field2-field3,field2-field4`
- The `field3` and `field4` show up in place of the `field2`, which is not present in the file.
- These fields get a column name composed of the name of their parent `field2` and their own name, separated by a `-` (hyphen character).

This will happen in a cascading manner, if there are non-repeating groups inside non-repeating groups.

A very common example of this is the `<meta>` block, which is often used to add the `instanceID` to the submission. This field will get into the CSV inside a column named `meta-instanceID`.

Column headers do not contain the name of the group that contains the repeat group, even if the headers do contain the name of groups within the repeat group. 

- Lets consider the following model:

    ```xml
    <model>
      <group1>
        <repeat1>
          <group2>
            <text1/>
          </group2>
        </repeat1>
      </group1>
    </model>
    ```

- The column header for text1 will be `group2-text1`, not `group1-repeat1-group2-text1`.

### Geopoint fields

The fields of type `GEOPOINT` will produce a column for each one of their `Latitude`, `Longitude`, `Altitude`, and `Accuracy` components. The column names will be composed like a non-repeating group, with the name of the model field and each component name, separated by a `-` (hyphen character). Example: `some_place-Latitude`.

### Date and time fields

These fields get encoded following the user's locale settings and Java's [MEDIUM style pattern](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/text/DateFormat.html).

### Non-empty value codification

| Type               | Quoted | Example csv                                                                                    |
| ------------------ | ------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| text               | Yes    | `something,"some text",something`                                                              |
| int                | No     | `something,42,something`                                                                       |
| decimal            | No     | `something,42.33,something`                                                                    |
| date               | Yes    | `something,"Apr 26, 2018",something`                                                           |
| time               | No     | `something,8:56:00 AM,something`                                                               |
| date_time          | Yes    | `something,"Apr 26, 2018 8:56:00 AM",something`                                                |
| geopoint           | No     | `something,23.314925,-3.9869671,21.800003,15.478,something`                                    |
| geotrace           | No     | `something,23.314926 -3.9869713 21.800003 10.0;23.314926 -3.9869713 21.800003 10.0;,something` |
| geoshape           | No     | `something,23.314926 -3.9869713 0.0 0.0;23.314926 -3.9869713 0.0 0.0;,something`               |
| barcode            | No     | `something,000049499094,something`                                                             |

### Empty value codification

| Type               | Quoted | Output          | Example csv               |
| ------------------ | ------ | --------------- | ------------------------- |
| text               | Yes    | `""`            | `something,"",something`  |
| int                | Yes    | `""`            | `something,"",something`  |
| decimal            | Yes    | `""`            | `something,"",something`  |
| date               | No     | empty column    | `something,,something`    |
| time               | No     | empty column    | `something,,something`    |
| date_time          | No     | empty column    | `something,,something`    |
| geopoint           | No     | 4 empty columns | `something,,,,,something` |
| geotrace           | Yes    | `""`            | `something,"",something`  |
| geoshape           | Yes    | `""`            | `something,"",something`  |
| barcode            | Yes    | `""`            | `something,"",something`  |

_Notice that the quotation rules change respect to the non-empty value codifications._

### Notes on empty values

All fields from the following example submission are considered to be empty:

```xml
<data>
  <field1></field1>
  <field2/>
  <field3> </field3>
  <field4>        </field4>
</data>
```

_Notice that a field holding only whitespaces will get trimmed and be effectively empty._

Commit message:

Adapt information about the filename in the export format doc

docs/export-format.md, after:

# Briefcase export CSV format

## Format parameters

| Parameter               | Value | Description |
| ----------------------- | ----- | ----------- |
| Separator               | `,`   | Comma character |
| Quoted                  | `"`   | Double quote character. See the [Values block columns](#values-block-columns) section to know which fields get quoted |
| Header                  | Yes   | Every file will have a header with the respective column names |
| Empty columns           | Yes   | See the [Values block columns](#values-block-columns) section to know which fields get empty columns |
| Encoding of null values | No    | Nulls are empty columns and, sometimes, empty strings |

## Main output file

The main output file has values from any non-repeating group field found at the topmost level of a form's model and other metadata.

### Structure of the file:

| Column name    | Required | Quoted | Description |
| -------------- | -------- | ------ | ----------- |
| SubmissionDate | Yes      | Yes    | See the [Values block columns](#values-block-columns) section to learn how dates are encoded |
| Values block   | Yes      |        | Holds columns with the values of topmost model fields and non-repeating groups |
| KEY            | Yes      | No     | Holds the `instanceID` of each submission |
| isValidated    | No       | No     | It's only present if the form is encrypted. It holds `true` if the cryptographic signature has been validated, `false` otherwise |

## Repeat output file

Each repeat group will produce an output CSV file, and the filename will be the composition of the main csv filename and the repeat group's name.

- If form X has a repeat group Y, then the output file for the repeat group will be named `X-Y.csv`
- Middle groups (including repeats) are ignored. If form X has a non-repeat group Y, which has a repeat group Z, then the output file for the repeat group will be named `X-Z.csv`
- If form X has two repeat groups called Y (in any group arrangement), then a sequence number suffix is added for disambiguation and you will get output files `X-Y~1.csv`, and `X.Y~2.csv`

  The sequence follows a depth-first ordering. In other words, files will have the same order as the repeat groups are defined in the instance's model.
  
  Some examples:

    ```
    outer-group
      dupe-repeat     << gets the number 1
        inner-group
          dupe-repeat << gets the number 2
    ```
  
    ```
    group1
      dupe-repeat << gets the number 1
    group2
      dupe-repeat << gets the number 2
    ```
  
   

### Structure of the file:

| Column name         | Required | Description |
| ------------------- | -------- | ----------- |
| Values block        | Yes      | Holds columns with the values of the repeat group's fields |
| PARENT_KEY          | Yes      | Identifies the parent row |
| KEY                 | Yes      | Identifies this row |
| SET-OF-{GROUP NAME} | Yes      | Identifies the group this row belongs to |

### `PARENT_KEY`

|                  | Pattern         | Example                                               |
| ---------------- | --------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| Top group        | `{INSTANCE ID}` | `uuid:00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000`           |
| Descendant group | `{PARENT KEY}`  | `uuid:00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/group1[1]` |

_Note: non-repeat groups in the chain of ancestors are always ignored_

### `KEY`

|                  | Pattern                                  | Example                                                         |
| ---------------- | ---------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Top group        | `{INSTANCE ID}/{GROUP NAME}[{ORDERING}]` | `uuid:00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/group1[1]`           |
| Descendant group | `{PARENT KEY}/{GROUP NAME}[{ORDERING}]`  | `uuid:00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/group1[1]/group2[1]` |

_Note: the `[{ORDERING}]` part is 1-indexed_
_Note: non-repeat groups in the chain of ancestors are always ignored_

### `SET-OF-{GROUP NAME}`

|                  | Pattern                      | Example                                                      |
| ---------------- | ---------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Top group        | `{INSTANCE ID}/{GROUP NAME}` | `uuid:00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/group1`           |
| Descendant group | `{PARENT KEY}/{GROUP NAME}`  | `uuid:00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/group1[1]/group2` |

_Note: non-repeat groups in the chain of ancestors are always ignored_

The SET-OF columns may be named differently in the two output files. For example, if form X contains a non-repeat group Y, which contains a repeat group Z, then:

- The main output file will have a column named SET-OF-Y-Z (the long name of the repeat group).
- The output file for the repeat group will have a column named SET-OF-Z (only the short name of the repeat group, without the name of its parent group).

## Values block columns

The values block has a column for each non-repeating field.

### Repeating groups

Repeating groups will produce a column named using the format `SET-OF-{GROUP NAME}` and their value will correspond to the same column in its own output file.

### Non-repeating groups

The fields of a non-repeating group replace their parent's column in a CSV file. Their column names will be composed to be able to track the group to which they belong. Example:

- Lets consider the following model:

    ```xml
    <model>
      <field1/>
      <field2>
        <field3/>
        <field4/>
      </field2>
    </model>
    ```
- The output CSV file will have these columns: `field1,field2-field3,field2-field4`
- The `field3` and `field4` show up in place of the `field2`, which is not present in the file.
- These fields get a column name composed of the name of their parent `field2` and their own name, separated by a `-` (hyphen character).

This will happen in a cascading manner, if there are non-repeating groups inside non-repeating groups.

A very common example of this is the `<meta>` block, which is often used to add the `instanceID` to the submission. This field will get into the CSV inside a column named `meta-instanceID`.

Column headers do not contain the name of the group that contains the repeat group, even if the headers do contain the name of groups within the repeat group. 

- Lets consider the following model:

    ```xml
    <model>
      <group1>
        <repeat1>
          <group2>
            <text1/>
          </group2>
        </repeat1>
      </group1>
    </model>
    ```

- The column header for text1 will be `group2-text1`, not `group1-repeat1-group2-text1`.

### Geopoint fields

The fields of type `GEOPOINT` will produce a column for each one of their `Latitude`, `Longitude`, `Altitude`, and `Accuracy` components. The column names will be composed like a non-repeating group, with the name of the model field and each component name, separated by a `-` (hyphen character). Example: `some_place-Latitude`.

### Date and time fields

These fields get encoded following the user's locale settings and Java's [MEDIUM style pattern](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/text/DateFormat.html).

### Non-empty value codification

| Type               | Quoted | Example csv                                                                                    |
| ------------------ | ------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| text               | Yes    | `something,"some text",something`                                                              |
| int                | No     | `something,42,something`                                                                       |
| decimal            | No     | `something,42.33,something`                                                                    |
| date               | Yes    | `something,"Apr 26, 2018",something`                                                           |
| time               | No     | `something,8:56:00 AM,something`                                                               |
| date_time          | Yes    | `something,"Apr 26, 2018 8:56:00 AM",something`                                                |
| geopoint           | No     | `something,23.314925,-3.9869671,21.800003,15.478,something`                                    |
| geotrace           | No     | `something,23.314926 -3.9869713 21.800003 10.0;23.314926 -3.9869713 21.800003 10.0;,something` |
| geoshape           | No     | `something,23.314926 -3.9869713 0.0 0.0;23.314926 -3.9869713 0.0 0.0;,something`               |
| barcode            | No     | `something,000049499094,something`                                                             |

### Empty value codification

| Type               | Quoted | Output          | Example csv               |
| ------------------ | ------ | --------------- | ------------------------- |
| text               | Yes    | `""`            | `something,"",something`  |
| int                | Yes    | `""`            | `something,"",something`  |
| decimal            | Yes    | `""`            | `something,"",something`  |
| date               | No     | empty column    | `something,,something`    |
| time               | No     | empty column    | `something,,something`    |
| date_time          | No     | empty column    | `something,,something`    |
| geopoint           | No     | 4 empty columns | `something,,,,,something` |
| geotrace           | Yes    | `""`            | `something,"",something`  |
| geoshape           | Yes    | `""`            | `something,"",something`  |
| barcode            | Yes    | `""`            | `something,"",something`  |

_Notice that the quotation rules change respect to the non-empty value codifications._

### Notes on empty values

All fields from the following example submission are considered to be empty:

```xml
<data>
  <field1></field1>
  <field2/>
  <field3> </field3>
  <field4>        </field4>
</data>
```

_Notice that a field holding only whitespaces will get trimmed and be effectively empty._
